docs(eval): add comprehensive guide for contributing evaluation use cases and unencrypted multi-turn reference example (#2114)
google/A2UI: eval/CONTRIBUTING_USE_CASES.md

# Contributing evaluation use cases

This guide explains how application teams can contribute evaluation use cases (data points) to the A2UI evaluation framework without needing to understand the underlying evaluation engine or solvers.

## Why full conversation context is required

A2UI is an agent-driven UI protocol where components render dynamically based on conversation state, retrieved data, and domain rules. Single-turn prompts are insufficient for evaluating agent behavior.

A complete evaluation use case requires the full conversational context:

- **System prompt (`system_prompt`)**: Domain-specific instructions, application personas, clinical triage rules, or business policies.
- **Conversation history (`messages`)**: The complete dialogue sequence leading up to the final UI generation request.

> - **Tool call history (`tool_calls` and `tool` roles)**: Include all assistant function calls and tool return payloads—including unrelated tool calls or extra background context. Testing models with realistic, noisy conversation histories verifies that the agent can still reason accurately in the presence of potentially confusing extra context, representing real production usage.

Reviewer: One thing would be to make sure that the conversation and tool call history is properly interleaved: you need to know the order of operation, so you don't want two separate histories.

Author: Excellent point! I updated the guide to explicitly state that all conversation turns and tool call interactions must be properly interleaved in chronological order within the single `messages` list so the order of operations is preserved.

> - **Expected output description (`target`)**: A qualitative rubric for the LLM-as-a-judge. Describe which UI components must appear, how data binding should be wired, and what errors should be penalized, rather than providing a hardcoded JSON string.

Reviewer: Should we say that it *can't* include a hardcoded JSON string, since that would tie it to a particular inference format?

Author: Good point! I updated the guide and skill to explicitly state that `target` must not include a hardcoded JSON string, explaining that doing so ties the evaluation to a specific inference format (such as JSON vs. XML or DSL).

## Creating representative synthetic data from production logs

To contribute an effective evaluation data point, base your scenario on real production logs so the length, structure, and complexity reflect actual usage. However, evaluation datasets must never contain confidential information, personally identifiable information (PII), or proprietary business data.

> It is your responsibility as a contributor to personally audit every data point before submission and verify that all content is appropriate for public release.

Reviewer: Does the CLA cover this?

Author: Yes, the Google CLA covers legal licensing and redistribution rights for all contributions. However, we also explicitly remind contributors here to audit synthetic datasets for PII or confidential information as an operational safeguard. I clarified this in the guide by noting how the CLA and personal confidentiality auditing work together.

3. **Generate synthetic data from the specification**: Ask a language model to generate a completely synthetic conversation that matches your structural specification. Because the specification contains no confidential data, the resulting synthetic dialogue will be clean.
4. **Audit the output**: Personally review the generated data point to confirm that no sensitive details remain and that the synthetic scenario accurately reproduces the reasoning challenge from the original log.

## Authoring workflow using the AI skill

Instead of writing dataset files by hand, use the `a2ui-add-eval-datapoint` AI skill (`.agents/skills/a2ui-add-eval-datapoint/SKILL.md`). This skill instructs your AI coding assistant to convert raw logs, mockups, or natural language descriptions into schema-compliant dataset files.

1. Unlock Transcrypt locally so your repository can read and write encrypted dataset files:
   ```bash
   cd eval
   bin/transcrypt -p <PASSWORD>
   ```
2. Invoke your AI agent, referencing the skill and your conversation data:

   ```text

>    Please use the a2ui-add-eval-datapoint skill to add a new multi-turn evaluation sample to eval/datasets/flight_booking.yaml.

Reviewer: Should we talk use the plural sense?  I would think that the common case is that you have a bunch of cases you want to convert.  That might allow the LLM to create a script to do the conversion (or parts of it) instead of needing to generate each one individually.

For example:

```suggestion
   Please use the a2ui-add-eval-datapoint skill to add new multi-turn evaluation samples to eval/datasets/flight_booking.yaml.
```

Author: Great idea. Updated the prompt example to use the plural sense (`add new multi-turn evaluation samples`) so contributors can convert multiple cases in a single batch.
